What's the second wall
that we might run into?
What if you have a component and
some of have a good reason,
maybe or maybe not,
that calls an API, right?
Or needed some data, or
expected to have some data from an API.
I joked that you shouldn't do this and
we do it on purpose.
I think I mentioned during the break for
our website CMS, we use Contentful, right?
Which is all our blog posts,
all of the copy on our website because I
got tired of tickets saying can you
change the wording of this heading?
Nobody on the product marketing
team wants to ask me to do that and
nobody on the engineering
team wants to do it, right?
And so right now everyone
go into Contentful, but,
sometimes if someone's working on a new
page or something along those lines,
you can actually see the components
with a given blog posts with
a given card with
whatever you're changing.
So we actually do have it hit
the API in certain situations for
the process of our friends in marketing to
being able to see stuff in the storybook,
I think designers as well,
to see it with real content.
They'll have it in their Figma design, but
then sometimes you wanna see it with some
real things, so
we'll have that in storybook as well.
So I lied, we do do it on purpose.
Ross did it, he's the best.
That is the concept of a loader, right?
A loader runs before the story.
I was like, I was going to try to
try to explain what a loader is, but
I can't explain it without the words.
It loads [LAUGH] data.
Also, API, sure, sure, sure, that's great.
A place where I considered using
it is the application I work
on is the dashboard for
distributed system tooling, right?
Sometimes I just want to read fixture
data off the file system, right?
I have a whole bunch of cached API
requests that are just JSON files, and so
I could theoretically be
able to run through, okay,
now show it with this kind of event,
this kind of weird situation, and
that fixture, and stuff along those lines.
That is an issue, that is area where it is
on the roadmap, for like next month or so
we have not done it yet, I'll tell you,
it's a good idea next time
we'll talk to you all.
But that's the plan.
And so this would work
the exact same way as well.
So here we'll say loaders,
and that is an array as well.
Sure it could just be an array that I
pass through, that seems fine, I guess.
Let's actually do this instead.
We're gonna make it a function.
And, let's say const
tasks = await fetch.
This is just a, I mean,
the URL tells you what it is, right?
It's a fake API that happens to have
tasks that are exactly the same
as what is in here.
It's almost like I did it intentionally,
return tasks, right?
And so I do think I need to
parse the response to JSON now.
Then,
Response.json, And
then we'll pass that through.
And then, in our context, It is,
context.loaded.tasks.
This API gives me 200,
I could slice it, not going to.
So now you can see that it hit the API,
as well and that's super great.
The thing that you can do
is there's both an add-on,
But this is also outside of really what
we're supposed to talk about today, so
I'll just kinda make a mention to it,
something called Mock Service Worker.
This is great for local development too.
It basically, you installed it in
development, and it uses a service worker
to intercept all of your API calls and
just respond to them locally, right?
So if you, and this is great when we, for
a given component in a design system,
maybe not that important, but
if you're testing entire pages, entire
things that have a lot going on, right?
It can theoretically, and we use this
in development, right, storybook aside,
which is like, I don't use it that much
cuz I work in an open source project,
which you can just run on your files.
I have a CLI,
I can actually run my product locally.
In past lives,
it's a little bit more important, but
you can actually just have it
intercept all of the API requests and
give you back mock data and
stuff along those lines.
And it's great for
developing it on an airplane and
stuff along those lines because you
hate to see that stuff not work.
And you can kind of turn it off and
turn it on.
So you can, if it is calling a real API
and you don't want that for some reason,
because nobody wants to see their test
fail because the backend went down.
Everyone's nodding because it happens.
Why are my tests failing?
Because of you.
And so this is a way to kind of
do that in both in development.
It's also great for
like loading up a bunch of like, again,
I need to load up a whole bunch of
different, fictitious states based on
every bug report that we've ever gotten,
stuff along those lines.
But, kind of to summarize and
there are some plugins that one can
look at, they're not that cool.
Storybook and figment and
figment storybook,
do you want to get lucky
guess what they do?
Nothing more than show
you one inside the other.
They seem really cool, I think I used them
once and then like, I can just open up two
windows it's fine rather than try
to connect them all, all the time.